Module 14 Assignment
Part 1: Theory Questions
Server & Client Architecture
1. What is the difference between Client-side and Server-side rendering?
Client-side rendering (CSR) generates web page content in the user's browser using JavaScript. The server sends a basic HTML file, and the browser builds the page.
Server-side rendering (SSR) generates the complete HTML page on the server before sending it to the browser. This allows the page to load with content already available.
2. Explain the Request-Response Model with a simple example.
The Request-Response Model is the communication process between a client and a server.
Example:
When a user visits a website, the browser sends a request to the server asking for the webpage. The server processes the request and sends back a response containing the webpage data.
3. What happens when a user visits a website in their browser?
1.The user enters a URL in the browser.
2.The browser sends an HTTP request to the server.
3.The server processes the request.
4.The server returns an HTTP response.
5.The browser renders the webpage and displays it to the user.

Routing, Controllers & Middleware
4. What is Routing in a web application?
Routing is the process of connecting URLs or endpoints to specific functions that handle requests and return responses.
5. What is a Controller and why is it used?
A Controller is a function that contains the business logic for handling requests and sending responses. It helps keep code organized and easier to maintain.
6. What is Middleware?
Middleware is a function that runs between receiving a request and sending a response. It can modify requests, perform checks, log information, or execute additional tasks.
7. Explain the difference between Controllers and Middleware.
Controllers handle the main application logic and generate responses.
Middleware performs tasks before the controller executes, such as authentication, logging, validation, and security checks.
8. Give one real-life example where middleware can be useful.
Authentication middleware can check whether a user is logged in before allowing access to a protected route.

JSON Fundamentals
9. What is JSON?
JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight format used to store and exchange data between applications.
10. Why is JSON commonly used in APIs?
JSON is easy to read, lightweight, language-independent, and supported by almost all programming languages.
11. Write a valid JSON object containing the following information.
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "age": 25,
  "course": "MERN Stack"
}
12. Write three best practices for creating JSON data.
1.Use meaningful and consistent key names.
2.Follow proper JSON syntax.
3.Keep the structure simple and organized.

Web Security
13. What is a DOS (Denial of Service) Attack?
A DOS attack is a cyberattack where a single source floods a server with excessive requests, making it unavailable to legitimate users.
14. What is a DDOS (Distributed Denial of Service) Attack?
A DDOS attack uses multiple devices or systems to overwhelm a server with massive traffic, making the service unavailable.
15. What is Rate Limiting and how does it help protect a server?
Rate limiting restricts how many requests a user can make within a specific time period. It helps prevent abuse, spam, and DOS attacks.

Cookies & Authentication
16. What is a Cookie?
A cookie is a small piece of data stored in the user's browser by a website to remember information such as login sessions and preferences.
17. What is an HTTP-Only Cookie?
An HTTP-Only Cookie is a cookie that cannot be accessed through client-side JavaScript and can only be accessed by the server.
18. Why are HTTP-Only Cookies more secure than regular cookies?
They help prevent malicious scripts from accessing sensitive cookie data, reducing the risk of XSS attacks.
19. What is Cookie Hijacking?
Cookie hijacking is an attack where an attacker steals a user's session cookie and uses it to impersonate the user.

Performance & Scalability
20. What is a CDN (Content Delivery Network)?
A CDN is a network of distributed servers that deliver website content from locations closer to users.
21. How does a CDN improve website performance?
A CDN reduces loading time by serving content from the nearest server, reducing latency and server load.
22. What is Load Balancing?
Load balancing is the process of distributing incoming traffic across multiple servers.
23. Why is Load Balancing important for large applications?
It improves performance, increases reliability, prevents server overload, and ensures high availability.
